===========
Bag-packing
===========

The day before the event starts, you can pack your attendees' gift bags.

The best place to do this is in the registration room so that nothing needs to be removed from it
except rubbish.

Your sponsors will have sent a vast collection of stickers, pens, notebooks, leaflets and other
items, and you will also have some conference items such as programme booklets to go in them too.

It's simple enough to do this, but **it's also remarkably easy to get yourselves in a muddle**, and
the spectacle of 12 people trying to work out in which of 350 bags one of the 15 different items
hasn't been packed (or has been packed twice) won't be one you want to see.

**Make sure that the items you plan to pack are actually intended to go in the bags.** A sponsor
may have sent items to be kept at their booth, not to be placed in the bags - you need to know this
*before* your bag-packers ask you.


What not to pack
================

If at all possible, any packed bag should be suitable for any attendee. Name badges and t-shirts
should be left out of the bags and only handed over at registration time.

This makes registration easier - it's quicker to pick a t-shirt from the right pile and flip
through the name badges for the right one than it is to pick through a pile of 100 bags looking for
the name badge that someone pinned to it the previous afternoon.

It also helps to avoid a situation where you're looking through a pile of bags for the t-shirt of
the wrong size that must have been put in one of them.


The assembly line
=================

The best way to pack the bags is with an assembly line - set up a long line of stations, with one
item to be packed and volunteer allocated to each, and all the empty bags at the start.

The volunteer at each station should ascertain as far as possible whether there are enough of each
item for all the bags you plan to pack. It won't matter too much if some bags don't get an x and
some don't get a y, but try to avoid finding out that the last batch of bags lacks not only an x
and a y but a z too.

Do the first few bags **slowly**. Get each volunteer to do their own, taking it from station to
station. After that the packing can begin in earnest.

If some stations are slower than others, the assembly line should never allow bags to pile up at it
- volunteers should move downstream to help relieve the bottleneck.

Bags should be counted as they enter the system, so that you don't pack more than you intend to,
and grouped in batches so that you know how many you have completed.

The easiest part of the operation is passing the bags down the line and putting things in them -
it's managing all the things that are moving around, from empty boxes, packing materials and
completed bags that's trickier. 350 packed bags can take up a surprising amount of space, and you
need to plan where they're all going to go. Similarly, it's amazing how things like scissors can
disappear if people are careless about what they do with discarded packing materials or boxes.
