==================
Programme of talks
==================

Your programme of talks should be the jewel in the crown of your event.

It might in the end not turn out to be what people remember or value the most (for different
people, that could be the sprints, or a workshop or making new friends) but the programme of talks
is what most people will come for, what most employers will pay for their delegates to attend, and
it's the formal structure at the heart of the conference.

It's the easiest part of conference to understand - try explaining a code sprint to someone who
hasn't been to one, and the only part that many people are actually able to make judgements about.

So, you need to get this right, in advance, and to be able to promise and subsequently advertise a rich and balanced programme.

Single and multiple tracks
==========================

Conferences that run sessions of talks in parallel are called *multi-track* conferences. Sometimes
the tracks are dedicated to particular themes (a science track, an education track), but not
always; sometimes it's simply a way to hold more sessions during the event.

Even an event with multiple tracks won't always be running parallel sessions; keynote talks and
other plenary sessions will bring the whole audience together.

Multiple tracks
---------------

A multi-track event has some advantages.

It allows you to offer a wider range of talks in the same space of time, and makes it easy to have
talks that are of specialised rather than general interest. It also makes it possible for attendees
to choose which talks to go to.

Single track
------------

At the same time, some events hold strongly to a single track.

A single track is another way of emphasising the *we're all in this together* ethos.

It helps unify the attendees: everyone has the same experience. Choice is often overrated, and
sometimes people find themselves having to choose between two talks both of which they wanted to
attend (or regretting the choice they made).

It's good for speakers; it means they're able to attend all the other speakers' talks too. There's
always the risk with multiple tracks that a new speaker timetabled against a well-known and popular
figure will find themselves facing a very sparse audience, which is a disappointing experience.
With a single track, every speaker gets to share the same platform, enjoying the same experience
and the same audience, and will be guaranteed everyone's attention (possibly more nerve-wracking
for inexperienced speakers, but far more rewarding).

A single track also obliges you to choose your programme of talks even more carefully, which is
also a good thing.

Finally, a single track is easier to manage - you only need one session chair or co-ordinator at a
time, only one set of AV equipment and staff, while attendees know where to be and don't waste time
getting from one session to another.

.. note::

   There may be good practical reasons to hold a multi-track conference, but somehow single-track
   events tend to be more memorable and special experiences.


Length of talks
===============

For a single day of talks, consider slots of all the same length. It's simpler, and puts all your
speakers in the same position.

A longer event demands more variety and gives you ore flexibility. For example, even if a speaker
has a short slot, other attendees will have more opportunity to catch up with up with them over the
course of the conference.

See :doc:`/talks/timetable` for more.


.. _keynote_talks:

Keynote talks
=============

A keynote talk sets a tone and makes an important statement of intent - often, they have a message,
not just information, to deliver. A keynote address is usually a little longer than the long talks,
at least to provide some extra time for discussion, or to allow it to unfold at a more measured
pace.

A keynote talk isn't just a longer talk, or even an important one. It's one that helps define your
conference.

Your choice of keynote talks indicates what you consider to be important or of moment, or whom you
consider to be someone who should be heard or represents something significant that is happening.

Usually, a keynote address won't be a particularly deep technical talk, but will take a wider
perspective, perhaps personal, professional, political or historical.

Usually, the first talk of each day is appropriate for a keynote, but you can also use a keynote
talk to wrap up a programme of talks, but choose the topic appropriately.

See :doc:`/talks/choosing-talks` on the selection of keynote speakers.


.. _lightning_talks:

Lightning talks
===============

Lightning talks are short - usually strictly a maximum of five minutes - on any subject at all.

The best time for lightning talks is at the end of each day, though for an event with only a single
day of talks, you should consider holding two or even three lightning talk sessions earlier in the
day. This gives your attendees who have never spoken before a chance to see what lightning talks
actually are, and to realise that it's something they could do themselves, and the time to gather
together their thoughts and courage to propose one.

Many speakers get their first taste of speaking at a conference through doing - and enjoying - a
lightning talk, so it's important to provide as much encouragement as possible, both by example and
through exhortation.


Balance
=======

Of talks
--------

Aim for a good balance: of technical topics, war stories, community-oriented talks, and so on.

Similarly, you need a good range and balance of technical depth in technical talks. It is important
for a community conference to offer a platform to new speakers (whose perspective might reflect
less experience) and also to make it possible for attendees to hear less talks pitched at a lower
technical level. A programme only containing technically demanding talks is exclusive.

Balance matters both for the overall programme of talks, but also for each day and each block of
talks.

See :doc:`/talks/choosing-talks` for more.

Of speakers
-----------

See :doc:`/policies/diversity`.


Rhythm
======

Pay close attention to the pattern of talks through the day. The pace should be reasonably
consistent, without jarring changes, and also needs to rise and fall at appropriate times. Use the
day's natural structure and breaks to guide this.

A conference - and usually each day - should open with a keynote talk.

People are typically at their freshest and most alert mid-morning, so that's a good time for the
most difficult technical material, but speed up immediately before breaks. Your final scheduled
talk, of the event or the day, can afford to be reflective or retrospective, and should be a way to
help wind down the mood and provide a route back to the real world out of the conference bubble.

Lightning talks do an excellent job of breaking the conference spell, and are the perfect way to
end a day.

Variety of tone and pace is important, but also try to mix up your speakers, by age, sex, race,
native language, experience of speaking, personal style. Put first-time speakers immediately after
a keynote talks or very well-known speakers; it's a reminder of the importance of nurturing new
contributors and an affirmation of the principle of inclusion. Of course, this is only possible in
the first place if you have succeededing in assembling a diverse range of speakers.


Local speakers
==============

*Especially* if your event is one that moves to a different location each year, you *must* have
some local speakers. It's important for a number of different reasons.

Your event ought to engage the local community; it's not just a visiting bubble of touring
programmers that is there only to enjoy the local food/weather/nightlife/architecture and then to
leave, but a meaningful community of human beings.

You can invite local speakers who represent something of the location - researchers or students at
a local university for example are always doing interesting things. Many of them - *most* of them -
will be new to the open-source communities we often take for granted, and won't even be aware of
your event, but will have something worthwhile to contribute.

Your local developers are bound to offer up some things and ideas and projects that don't normally
find their way into the mainstream, and the local connection is an excellent way to bring some of
these unusual things to the forefront - speakers from "outside the bubble" will bring new
persectives.

It also helps forge relationships with the institutions that the local speakers are part of, and
having such relationships can greatly enrich your event - not just with speakers, but in all kinds
of unexpected ways.

When the event is over it should have left behind something of value, and that's only possible if
local people are able to be involved in the event. Every event should advance the community and its
projects, and if that doesn't include making a positive local contribution, something important has
been neglected.
