==============
Everybody pays
==============

.. note::

   At nearly all community events in the Python/Django world, the organisers adopt an *everybody
   pays* policy.

*Everybody* really does mean everybody - attendees, speakers, volunteers, organisers - **with one
exception: those who can’t afford to pay**.

So, not only does nobody receive remuneration for their contribution, every attendee pays to be
there. Free tickets - never mind a speaking fee - are not granted to superstar speakers, for
example, while organisers and volunteers all have to buy a ticket, just like the other attendees do.

This is sometimes surprises people who are used to different arrangements, but everybody pays is a
policy adopted by PyCon US, PyCon UK, DjangoCon Europe and DjangoCon US. These conferences don’t
take a profit, and are run entirely by unpaid volunteers.

The aim of the policy is to make the conference fairer, and to make the organisation more
transparent.

It’s fairer because it helps lower the price of tickets for everyone, which particularly benefits
those with less disposable income.

It’s fairer because it puts everybody in the same boat, including the organisers, including the
chair of the organising committee; we’re all equal and all in this together. (In other words, the
organisers are not asking attendees to pay anything that we’re not paying ourselves.)

It’s more transparent because it avoids potential conflicts of interest - it means the organisers
are not in the position of allocating free tickets to themselves.

Obviously this isn’t the only way to run a conference, and it won’t work for events that have to
make a profit to be viable, or which represent someone’s income. There’s nothing wrong with other
ways of doing it, but this is the PyCon/DjangoCon tradition and why it exists.

The policy is understood and supported by most attendees. Each year it makes a positive
contribution to the unity and diversity of the Python/Django communities, and has helped successive
community events more affordable for the people who need that the most.

Free tickets
------------

The only people who don’t pay are the ones who can’t afford to. In their case, there’s a financial
aid programme (which can be run by the organisers, or by a separate committee on behalf of for
example the DSF or PSF), while the conference organisers are able to allocate free or heavily
discounted tickets to people who need them.

The *everybody pays* policy makes it possible for the organisers to give more free tickets to
attendees who are on lower budgets, which of course this also helps make for a more diverse
attendance.

Volunteer tickets
-----------------

It's fair enough to offer volunteer-rate tickets to people who will give up a considerable portion
of their time at the event running about doing errands and sitting at the registration desk.
