======
Venues
======

DjangoCons in particular have a tradition of selecting surprising venues in interesting locations.

`DjangoCon 2012 in Zürich <http://2012.djangocon.eu>`_ was held in the bowels of a football and
athletics stadium. `2013's event was held in a circus tent. <http://2013.djangocon.eu>`_ In 2014,
it was on a `private island <http://2014.djangocon.eu>`_ off the coast of the French riviera.

Even the less dramatic venues of other editions have been in attractive buildings, in `Amsterdam
2011 <http://2011.djangocon.eu>`_ and `Cardiff 2015 <http://2015.djangocon.eu>`_.

This doesn't mean that you couldn't choose the basement of an anonymous hotel for yours, but still,
do consider other, more imaginative options. It's especially appropriate to select a venue that's
somehow emblematic of the host location, at any rate.


Criteria
========

Size
----

Your venue needs to be able to accommodate attendees for talks, have room for their lunches and
refreshments, space for sponsors' tables and stands, and also some additional space for
registration, quiet rooms, a crèche or anything else you're planning.


Location
--------

Choose a place that's reasonably easy for people, especially people who may be unfamiliar with the
local area or language, to get to from their accommodation.


Accessibility
-------------

Does the venue have good access for people who use wheelchairs or have mobility issues? Ask about
lifts, ramps and disabled toilets. Is there step-free access between different rooms, for talks,
lunch, breaks and so on?


The staff
---------

You're going to be working with the people at the venue, and will need their assistance. You'll
generally find that they are accommodating and helpful, but ascertain that as soon as you can.

Use your first meetings to ask everything you can think of; ask them to explain the most basic
things, and to see as much as possible. If you get a sense that their patience is running out, you
might want to reconsider working with them, because it will be painful and stressful later on when
you need to rely upon their help and co-operation.


Facilities
----------

Does the venue have adequate network provision? If not, can it be provided?


Venues for different purposes
=============================

For your :doc:`/talks/programme-of-talks`, you need a venue that can work to a tight and demanding
schedule. For sprints, workshops and other events, everything is more relaxed, and you can consider
other venues too.

Universities
------------

For sprints and workshops, a local university makes an ideal venue. This is especially the case if
you're not charging for those sessions, which typically makes it easy for a committee member
involved with a university to book rooms, obtain suitable network/AV support, get official support
for the event and so on.

Typically, universities are only too pleased to have collaborative coding events and educational
sessions taking place on their premises, and are keen to be involved.

A university will also be likely to have a cafeteria or dining hall well-equipped to feed dozens or
hundreds of people.

During university vacations, it's even easier to find suitable rooms and halls for your purposes.
You could even find that the university is able to provide inexpensive accommodation in its halls
of residence during vacations.


Backup venues
=============

You'd be surprised at the number of apparently non-flammable buildings that catch fire the night
before someone's important event is due to take place in them. It does happen, and it could happen
to you.

Don't be distracted by quibbles about likelihood of fire. It doesn't need to be fire; venues can be
rendered unusable without warning by all kinds of causes: leaking pipes, discovery of asbestos,
electrical faults, Legionnaire's disease, adverse health and safety inspections, court orders and
bizarre cases of simple bad luck.

You **must** have :doc:`/essentials/insurance` to cover you financially in the event of a disaster,
but you also need to look into the possibility of having a backup venue.

For the three main days of talks for `DjangoCon Europe 2015 <http://2015.djangocon.eu>`_ we booked
a backup venue. It was a much less grand and attractive venue than our primary venue, but would
certainly have been preferable to no venue at all. We were able to keep this venue on standby at no
extra charge to us, thanks to our Cardiff University committee members.

In the end it may not be possible or feasible to arrange a backup; not every conference organiser
can avail themselves of a University's facilities in this way, but it's still worth considering it
at least and knowing what you would do if the worst were to happen.
